---
description: Learn to use Flows in Directus Automate.
---

# Flows

Flows enable custom, event-driven data processing and task automation within Directus. Each flow is composed of one trigger, a series of operations and a data chain.

## Configure A Flow

### Create a Flow

1. Navigate to **Settings > Flows** and click <span mi btn>add</span> in the page header. A drawer will open.
2. Under **Flow Setup**, fill in a **Name** for the flow and the following _optional_ details:
   - **Status** — Sets the flow to active or inactive.
   - **Icon** — Adds an icon to help quickly identify the flow.
   - **Description** — Sets a brief verbal description of the flow.
   - **Color** — Sets a color to help identify the flow.
   - **Activity and Logs Tracking** — Lets you **Track Activity and Logs**, **Activity**, or **Neither**.

### Configure a Trigger

3. Click <span mi btn>arrow_forward</span> to navigate to **Trigger Setup**. Select a [trigger](/app/flows/triggers)
   type and configure as desired.
4. Click <span mi btn>done</span> in the menu header to confirm.

You'll now see your trigger in an empty grid area. Its time to start adding operations.

### Configure an Operation

5. On the trigger panel, click <span mi>add</span> and the **Create Operation** side drawer will open.
6. Choose a **Name**, an [operation](/app/flows/operations) type, and configure as desired.\
   Directus will convert the name into a unique operation key, used on the [data chain](#the-data-chain).\
   If you don't choose a name, the system will auto-generate a name and key for you.
7. Next, click <span mi btn>done</span> in the page header to confirm and return to the flow grid area.
8. From here, you can make the following optional configurations:
   - **Reposition** — You can drag and drop panels to reposition as desired.
   - **Unlink/Relink** — Click and drag <span mi icon prmry>adjust</span> or <span mi icon prmry>arrow_forward</span> to
     unlink/relink flows.
   - **Duplicate an Operation** — To duplicate an operation, click <span mi icon>more_vert</span> to open its context
     menu. Click <span mi icon>control_point_duplicate</span> and a duplicate of the operation (and its configuration
     details) will be created.
   - **Copy an Operation** — To copy and paste an operation into another flow, click <span mi icon>more_vert</span> to
     open its context menu. Click <span mi icon>input</span> and a popup menu will open. Choose the desired flow from
     the dropdown and click **Copy**.
   - **<span mi icon>data_object</span> Toggle Raw Editor** — Click <span mi icon>data_object</span> on an operations'
     form input fields to toggle the input type between standard and raw value. This allows you to add a raw value or
     [Data Chain Variables](#data-chain-variables) within any type of configuration option, even dropdown menus,
     checkboxes, and radio buttons.
   - **Delete an Operation** — To delete an operation, click <span mi icon>more_vert</span> then
     <span mi icon dngr>delete</span>. A popup menu will appear. Click **Delete** to confirm.
9. On the newly created operation panel:
   - Click <span mi icon>add</span> to add an operation to the **success path**.
   - Click <span mi icon>remove</span> to add an operation to the **failure path**.
10. Repeat steps 5-10 to build out your flow as desired.
11. Click <span mi btn>done</span> to confirm and create your flow.
12. Click <span mi btn>arrow_back</span> to return to the flows list.
13. Once created, you may need to re-edit your flow, toggle it to inactive, or delete it.

### Edit a Flow

1. Navigate to the desired flow.
2. Click <span mi btn muted>edit</span> in the flow page header and make reconfigurations as desired.
3. Click <span mi btn>done</span> to confirm.

### Toggle a Flow to Inactive

1. Navigate to **Settings > Flows** and click <span mi icon>more_vert</span> on the desired flow.
2. Click **<span mi icon>check</span> Set Flow to Active** or **<span mi icon>block</span> Set Flow to Inactive**.

### Delete a Flow

1. Click <span mi icon>more_vert</span> on the desired flow to open its context menu.
2. Click <span mi icon dngr>delete</span> and a popup menu will appear. Click **Delete** to confirm.

Now that we know how to create and configure a flow, it's time to get a firmer understanding of the data chain.

## Logs

<video autoplay playsinline muted loop controls title="">
	<source src="https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/configuration/flows/flows/flows-20220603A/logs-20220603A.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>

Accessible from the sidebar, logs store information for each flow execution. Each log will display information from
triggers as well as each operation in the flow. To access a flow's logs, follow these steps.

1. Navigate to **Settings > Flows** and click the desired flow.
2. Click **<span mi icon prmry>fact_check</span> Logs** in the sidebar. A side drawer will open, displaying the flow's
   logs.
3. Click a log and another side drawer will open, allowing you to peer through its data.
4. When finished, click <span mi btn muted>close</span> to close the drawer.

Logs are not a 1:1 mapping to the data chain. Each trigger and operation gets its own dropdown, which stores its
relevant data. Here's what you'll get from each of these:

**Trigger**

- **Options** — The values you input when you configured the trigger.\
  _(These configuration options are not stored on the data chain)_.
- **Payload** — Displays the data appended under `$trigger`.
- **Accountability** — Displays data appended under `$accountability`.

Note that `$accountability` is not nested under the `$trigger` key. However, it is listed under the Trigger in the Log
because `$accountability` is generated by the trigger.

**`<OperationKey>`**

- **Options** — The values you input when you configured the operation.\
  _(These configuration options are not stored on the data chain)_.
- **Payload** — Displays the data appended under this `<operationKey>`.

Remember, the [Log to Console](/app/flows/operations#log-to-console) operation is a key debugging tool. It does not
append data to the data chain. You will view your log message under **Options**. Therefore, anything you log will always
be displayed as nested under a `message` key. For example, if you decide to log `"The last operation was a success"`, it
will be displayed as:

```
{
	"message": "The last operation was a success"
}
```

::: warning Logs are stored in the database

Keep in mind that if you've configured a flow to track logs, all this information is stored in the database. You may
need to periodically delete this data.

:::

::: tip Where is `$last`?

You may notice `$last` is not in the Logs. Remember, `$last` constantly updates to store the data of the most recently
executed operation. The log shows the results of the entire flow. Therefore `$last` would simply be the very last
operation in the flow.

:::

::: tip More on Debugging

You may find a tool like [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) quite helpful for viewing data and debugging flows.

:::
