---
description: Learn to create, duplicate, archive and perform other actions with items using Directus.
---

# Item Editor

The item editor is a tailored form for managing items and their field values.

<!-- TODO: IMAGE OF EDITOR -->

## Fields & Data Model

You can add fields to items by [configuring the collection's data model](/data-modeling/fields). Here, you can also configure how the fields are displayed in the item editor.

## Creating Items

To create an Item, navigate to the content module and select the desired collection. Click :icon{name="material-symbols:add-circle-outline-rounded"} in the page header to open the item page. Fill in item details as desired. Click :icon{name="material-symbols:check"} in the page header.

::callout{type="info" title="Singletons"}

If the collection is configured as a [singleton](/data-modeling/collections) in the data model
settings, the App will automatically open the item page when selecting said collection.

::

## Duplicating Items

<!-- TODO: IMAGE -->

When editing an item, you can click on :icon{name="material-symbols:more-vert"} to select some advanced options, amongst them "Save as Copy". Selecting this will save said copy.

## Archiving Items

To archive an item, follow these steps, navigate to the content module and select the desired collection. Select the desired item to open the item editor. Click :icon{name="material-symbols:archive"} located in the header and a popup will appear to confirm the action.

::callout{type="info" title="Requires Configuration"}

Requires an [archive field](/data-modeling/collections) to be configured within the collection's data model
settings.

::

## Revisions

<!-- TODO: IMAGE -->

As you update field values on items, Directus saves these revisions, and they can be compared side-by-side to the current state.

To revert an item, navigate to the content module and select the desired collection and select the desired item. Click on "Revisions" in the page sidebar and then on the revision you wish to preview. Go to "Revisions Made" in the side menu and view the revision differences. Click :icon{name="material-symbols:settings-backup-restore"} to revert the item's values and return to the item Page.

::callout{type="info" title="Revision Preview"}

You will also see a "Revision Preview" button in the side menu navigation, which will let you preview all the item's
values for that revision.

::

::callout{type="info"}

You can also revert Items [programmatically via the API](/api-reference/system/revisions).

:::

## Comments

<!-- TODO: IMAGE -->

You can add comments to items in the sidebar by clicking on "Comments", which will show the form for submitting one. You can use the @ button to tag specific users in said comment.

## Shares

<!-- TODO: IMAGE -->

You can create shareable links to view an item in the sidebar by clicking on Shares -> New Share.

Here, you can specify the name, password, roles allowed to access the item, as well as the start and end dates for the link's validity, followed by the maximum times a link can be used.

To share the link, click on the new share's :icon{name="material-symbols:more-horiz"} and select either "Copy Link" or "Send Link". You can also edit or destroy the share in this menu.

## Next Steps

Learn how to use [content versioning](/content/content-versioning) and the [live preview](/content/live-preview) functionality.
