---
description: This guide covers the process of enabling and utilizing Content Versioning in Directus.
---

# Content Versioning

Content versioning allows teams to create and manage different versions of their content. There are several reasons to
use content versioning, including drafting content without publishing it, and more ways to collaborate effectively.

## Concepts

- **Version**: A version of an item is a snapshot that gets copied from the current or `main` version, allowing you to safely make changes and later promote to be the main version. Any changes to the main version made in the meantime are updated automatically.
- **Main**: the main version is the original version of a piece of content that has been created. It is the default version that is displayed to users. The main version is the "source of truth" for all other versions. This is often used for published content.
- **Promote**: promoting a version means to make it the new main version. When a new version is promoted, it becomes the main version that is displayed to users, and it replaces the previous main version.


::callout{type="info" title="Using Versions in Live Preview" url="/content/live-preview"}

The version field is a dynamic variable can be added to the live preview URL so you can preview a specific version of an item. Check out more about live previews.

::

## Setting Up Content Versioning

<!-- TODO: Image -->

Navigate to **Settings** > **Data Model**, select the collection that you want to enable content versioning for, and scroll down to the content versioning section. Toggle "Enable Versions" and save your data model.

## Creating a New Version

<!-- TODO: Image -->

Open an item within your versioned collection. At the top of the item view, you will notice a dropdown with the main Content Version displayed as "main". Select "Create Version" and provide a key and a name for the new version. You can then save your new version.

::callout{type="info" title="Version Source"}

All new versions originate from the main version. This implies that the main version acts as the single source of truth
for other versions.

::

## Making Changes to a Version

<!-- TODO: Image -->

Open the item in the newly created version, and make the desired edits to the item's content.

Upon saving the changes, you'll notice that the main version remains unaffected, while the changes are reflected only in the modified version.

## Reviewing and Promoting a Version

<!-- TODO: Image -->

Promoting a version will turn it into the main version.

Open the version you want to promote and select the "Promote Version" option from the dropdown. In the "Changes" tab, you can review the changes made for each field in the version and decide which field's changes to accept or reject. Switch to the "Preview" tab to see a preview of the changes you are about to promote. 

After promoting a version, you can choose to keep or delete the version.

::callout{type="info" title="Programmatically Implement Content Versioning"}

You have the option to integrate Content Versioning through the API. To learn how to accomplish this, please refer to
our [API reference documentation](/api-reference/system/versions).

::

## Revisions and Content Versioning

Under the hood, content versions are stored in the `directus_revisions` collection. In bigger projects this collection
can get large.

This can be mitigated by periodically removing some or all data in this collection. Note that this could
unintentionally remove some content versions.
