---
description: Translation Strings enable you to translate things like dropdown options, placeholder text, field notes, and more.
---

# Translations

Localising content in Directus involves using translation strings, which are multilingual key-value pairs that you can use throughout the app. They enable you to translate things like dropdown options, placeholder text, field notes, and more.

<!-- TODO: <video autoplay playsinline muted loop controls>
<source src="https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/configuration/translation-strings/translation-strings-20220615A/translation-strings-20220615A.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video> -->

::callout{type="info" title="Data Studio Translations"}

This article refers to translating your content in Directus. Many parts of the Data Studio are already translated into multiple languages via community contribution on Crowdin.

::


## Create a Translation String

<!-- TODO: <video autoplay playsinline muted loop controls>
<source src="https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/configuration/translation-strings/translation-strings-20220616A/create-and-manage-a-trasnlation-string-20220616A.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video> -->

To create a translation string, navigate to Settings > Translation Strings and click on :icon{name="material-symbols:add-circle-rounded"} in the page header and a drawer will open.

Add a key and click on "Create New" to open another drawer. Select the language and type in the corresponding translation. Click on :icon{name="material-symbols:check-circle"} to confirm and add the translation.

## Use a Translation String

<!-- TODO: <video autoplay playsinline muted loop controls>
<source src="https://cdn.directus.io/docs/v9/configuration/translation-strings/translation-strings-20220616A/assign-and-remove-translation-string-20220616A.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video> -->

Throughout the settings module, you will notice certain input fields have a :icon{name="material-symbols:translate"} icon on them, meaning you have the option assign a translation string.

To assign a translation string, navigate to the input that you'd like to add a translation string to. There are two ways to assign a translation string:

- Click :icon{name="material-symbols:translate"} and a dropdown menu with all translation strings will appear.
- Type `$t:translation-string-key` and hit enter.

Choose a translation string key as desired.

::callout{type="info" title="Switching Language"}

There are two ways to change the app language. Administrators can set the project's
[default language](/configuration/translations), while users can choose their own personal
language preference.

::

::callout{type="info" title="Adding New Translation Strings"}

You can also click ":icon{name="material-symbols:add-circle-rounded"} New Translation String" in the :icon{name="material-symbols:translate"} dropdown menu to create a new translation string on the fly.

::

## Content Translations

<!-- TODO: Image -->

With Directus, you can localize your content into several languages using a [translations field](/data-modeling/relationships) on a given collection.

Once this field is added to a collection, a few new collections will be created. One being a pre-populated `languages` collection, as well as an invisible `<colletion-name>_translations`.

In the "Data Model" section of the settings module, navigate into the `<colletion-name>_translations` collection and add the fields which you'd like to translate.

Now, when [editing an item](/content/editor) of that collection, you'll be able to add translations for those fields.
